Lord.
NOTE CONF
Jesus.
Christ Jesus our.
NOTE CONF
Lord.
And.
NOTE CONF
Saviour Jesus.
Christ our Lord.
NOTE CONF
Amen.
The Lord.
NOTE CONF
Jesus.
So.
NOTE CONF
Hi everyone.
Let's get started.
NOTE CONF
Um, unfortunately, there's technical problems again.
So I think I'll be okay, but you won't be
NOTE CONF
able to see the whole club because somehow the the
system here doesn't recognise my laptop.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so you should still be able to do the
whole club.
NOTE CONF
You just.
We just won't see the results.
NOTE CONF
So let's see how it goes.
Anyway, the slides are there and the recording should work
NOTE CONF
as well.
It worked last time.
NOTE CONF
You've probably seen that.
Uh, sorry.
NOTE CONF
The last time in this room.
Okay, so we talked about backpropagation.
NOTE CONF
We talked about neural networks and perceptrons.
And today we're going to see an application in cognitive
NOTE CONF
science of those methods.
So we'll discuss a classical model of past transformation.
NOTE CONF
So we're basically looking at this as an alternative way
of looking at past tense formation.
NOTE CONF
Right.
We've seen the words and rules approach where you analyse
NOTE CONF
it as a word being acquired initially words being acquired,
then rules being acquired.
NOTE CONF
Then the two of them interacting in an interesting way.
And all of this was to explain how children learn
NOTE CONF
the past tense and other phenomena in the language that
they're exposed to.
NOTE CONF
And the neural network approach is the the total opposite
of this in a sense, because it doesn't assume any
NOTE CONF
rules, any words.
It just assumes a general learning mechanism.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to see a model called the McClelland
model.
NOTE CONF
As I said, a classic model first invented in the
80s.
NOTE CONF
We'll look in particular on the at the features, because
even if you assume a neural network model and you
NOTE CONF
assume a general learning algorithm like backpropagation, you still need
to be very careful about how you represent the input
NOTE CONF
and the output of your model.
And we're going to discuss this in some detail.
NOTE CONF
And then we'll talk a little bit about the model
and ask the question whether it actually adequately captures the
NOTE CONF
phenomenon which is past tense acquisition here.
And then we'll sort of fast forward 25 years and
NOTE CONF
look at a more contemporary model of past tense acquisition
by Kirov and Cotterell, which applies all the latest deep
NOTE CONF
learning.
I mean, this model is also a few years old
NOTE CONF
now, but much more advanced deep learning techniques than were
available in the 80s.
NOTE CONF
And the results are somewhat surprising.
So we'll come to that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
But just to quickly remind you, and I've just said
NOTE CONF
something along those lines, so we've seen the sort of
classical symbolic rationalist word and rules approach.
NOTE CONF
Where you have a rule, for example, stick ed at
the end of the base form of the verb to
NOTE CONF
generate past tense forms, and then you need a large
lexicon.
NOTE CONF
You need to put irregular verbs directly into the lexicon.
You need something like blocking to avoid people generating both
NOTE CONF
the regular and the irregular form, for example.
Hold, hold and hold.
NOTE CONF
Hold it.
You don't want both of them, at least not at
NOTE CONF
the same time.
And that is already sort of hinting at problems with
NOTE CONF
that approach.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Blocking.
That's just a stipulation.
NOTE CONF
There isn't really good evidence for it.
It's ad hoc.
NOTE CONF
And maybe we won't necessarily like that in our system.
And here we're going to look at the alternative.
NOTE CONF
Let's assume we have no rules.
We don't even have a lexicon.
NOTE CONF
Children just learn past tense forms by analogy.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So they have forms like fold folded, mould Mould.
It's called scolded.
NOTE CONF
So hold, hold.
It is a natural analogy which ultimately turns out to
NOTE CONF
be incorrect, but we can explain where it comes from.
We don't really need rules, we just need things to
NOTE CONF
be similar in a certain way.
And that sort of represents the empiricist approach or the
NOTE CONF
the approach where everything is learned rather than innate.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Remember we contrasted rationalism where things are assumed to be
innate and genetically encoded in some way to a learning
NOTE CONF
based approach, an empiricist approach where things are acquired by
cultural transmission.
NOTE CONF
They're not encoded in your genes.
Neural networks we've seen we've seen very simple examples.
NOTE CONF
It's computer modelling approach inspired very loosely by biological networks.
And we've seen perceptions and feedforward networks, which are sort
NOTE CONF
of an assembly of perceptrons and Of course, a neural
network model learns by example, right?
NOTE CONF
Sees lots of examples of past tense.
And then it's able to pick up general patterns.
NOTE CONF
So this should work for both regular and irregular verbs.
That's that's the hope.
NOTE CONF
Um, but that's not everything.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So we obviously want the model to learn the past
tense.
NOTE CONF
That's fine.
But we also want the model to have some cognitively
NOTE CONF
plausible features.
For example U-shaped learning.
NOTE CONF
Right.
If you remember this, um, in the acquisition of the
NOTE CONF
past tense and actually in the acquisition of quite a
lot of other cognitive, um, capabilities, we see this U-shaped
NOTE CONF
curve where initially during development we get a fairly low
error rate.
NOTE CONF
So most of the verbs are produced correctly.
Then with time, the error rate goes up and correctness
NOTE CONF
goes down somewhere here, and then correctness increases again.
So we get a U-shaped curve.
NOTE CONF
High accuracy.
Low accuracy than high accuracy again.
NOTE CONF
And for example, if you take a single verb spoke.
Speak spoke.
NOTE CONF
Then the child would initially get this correct.
But then I would say speak for a while and
NOTE CONF
then go back to spoke.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And the explanation in a rule based framework is that
in the first stage, children just remember, just memorise everything.
NOTE CONF
Say they don't know a lot of past tense forms,
and they just memorise both the regular ones and the
NOTE CONF
irregular ones.
Then once they see more and more verbs in stage
NOTE CONF
two, the error rates go down because they realise the
error rates go up because they realise you can just
NOTE CONF
stick ed at the end of a verb.
And they apply this everywhere they overgeneralise so they assume
NOTE CONF
everything is regular.
We've learned this fancy new rule.
NOTE CONF
So we just use it everywhere.
And this manifests itself as an increased error rate.
NOTE CONF
Then later on in stage three, they pick up on
the fact that some verbs do not use the rule
NOTE CONF
and they memorise those ones, the irregular ones.
But the rule remains and can be used for everything
NOTE CONF
else.
And then the error rate goes down again, correctness goes
NOTE CONF
up.
And so that's sort of the canonical explanation for the
NOTE CONF
U-shaped curve.
And now the neural net guys, they assume they can
NOTE CONF
get this curve just through a general learning algorithm.
No rules, no lexicon, no blocking.
NOTE CONF
None of this is necessary.
That's the claim.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And this is the model Y hat.
NOTE CONF
And McClelland, as I said, goes back to the 80s.
It was part of a new paradigm in psychology or
NOTE CONF
psychological modelling at that time called parallel distributed processing, which
we now call deep learning or neural nets, sometimes called
NOTE CONF
connectionism, though nobody.
I don't think a lot of people use that Uh,
NOTE CONF
Monica.
Um, and the idea is not only to build a
NOTE CONF
model that can learn the past tense.
That is maybe not so difficult, but to build a
NOTE CONF
model that is able to actually.
Sorry, wrong direction that is able to simulate.
NOTE CONF
Simulate the U-shaped curve that we had here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And the general approach is that you build a model
that just does that.
NOTE CONF
It takes a base form and generates the past tense
form.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't do language processing in general.
It doesn't do actually, uh, understanding.
NOTE CONF
It only does generation.
So it's a very limited, uh, a limited approach that
NOTE CONF
can only model this particular phenomenon, this particular set of
data, which is quite common in cognitive modelling.
NOTE CONF
You don't build a full model of, uh, even one
cognitive faculty like language processing.
NOTE CONF
But you build a model of a particular phenomenon and
you want to capture a particular data just because it's
NOTE CONF
so hard to try to model everything at once.
And more specifically, what we do, we take a phonological
NOTE CONF
representation.
So representation in terms of the sounds of the stem
NOTE CONF
of the base form.
And we output a phonological representation of the correct past
NOTE CONF
tense.
And then you can test this with new verbs, with
NOTE CONF
verbs that the model hasn't seen before.
Obviously you give it some verbs with the correct past
NOTE CONF
tense during training, but you can test it then with
new verbs that you haven't seen before and should be
NOTE CONF
able to generalise to those new verbs to generate the
correct past tense form.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so.
In this, in this model there's no lexicon, no rules.
NOTE CONF
As I've already said, it is a two level fully
connected feedforward perceptron network very similar to the network we've
NOTE CONF
seen in The Last Lecture.
The initial version didn't even use hidden units, just had
NOTE CONF
an output layer and an input layer and still worked.
Later versions were more fancy, added hidden units, and so
NOTE CONF
on.
As I said, we're taking.
NOTE CONF
So I'm using these slashes here to indicate the phonological
form.
NOTE CONF
So that would be dance and sync.
And then the past dance form would be danced and
NOTE CONF
sang.
Okay so this is the what goes in as the
NOTE CONF
input.
And this is what comes out as the output.
NOTE CONF
So base form goes in.
We have the neural network doing the magic.
NOTE CONF
And then it produces the past tense form of the
verb okay.
NOTE CONF
And now the question is of course how do we
get these verbs into the model.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Because the model as we saw last time, just takes
NOTE CONF
in numbers and outputs numbers.
Right.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't.
It's not there.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't process letters or words or linguistic input or
speech or anything like that.
NOTE CONF
It's a vector of numbers, goes in vector numbers.
Numbers comes out.
NOTE CONF
So we now need to represent our verbs as a
sequence of numbers, as a vector of numbers that we
NOTE CONF
can input into the neural net.
And this is in any sort of neural network modelling.
NOTE CONF
That's part of the problem designing the input and output
representations.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Because it's a neural network is basically computing a function
NOTE CONF
on vectors from vector to vector.
So we need to design what these vectors look like.
NOTE CONF
And so I will spend quite a lot of time
on discussing these feature representations.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So as I said the design of the features of
NOTE CONF
the input and output representation is really important.
And that's still true for modern neural networks right.
NOTE CONF
Modern neural networks, they use something called word embeddings when
you use them for language processing.
NOTE CONF
We'll talk about those actually next week.
They are more advanced and more complicated than the simple
NOTE CONF
representations we'll discuss today.
But the question of representation is is still a crucial
NOTE CONF
one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So Raymond McClelland assumed that you have a you represent
a word like came, for example, as a sequence of
NOTE CONF
phonemes.
So this would be a and m.
NOTE CONF
And these things are sort of I don't know.
If you've studied some linguistics then you'll know about the,
NOTE CONF
the IPA, the International Phonetic Alphabet.
These are sort of Ascii representations of IPA, and they
NOTE CONF
assume 35 phonemes, which is enough to represent all the
sounds in English.
NOTE CONF
Note that there's more phonemes than letters.
And now we need to represent the context as well.
NOTE CONF
So we cannot just say okay, here we have a
phoneme and a phoneme and so on.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we need to represent what comes before and after
that phoneme.
NOTE CONF
Why is that important?
Well, because verbs behave differently based on their context.
NOTE CONF
So for example, there's patterns like sing sang, ring rang,
springs rang.
NOTE CONF
Where if you have this, if you have an eye
and phoneme.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So like in sing you have the e and then
NOTE CONF
you have.
And if you have that then you have this pattern
NOTE CONF
here.
Sing sang, ring rung and so on.
NOTE CONF
This is common to all of these.
And we want the model to be able to represent
NOTE CONF
that right.
So individual phonemes would not be sufficient.
NOTE CONF
So we encode the context.
And that also gives us information about the relative position
NOTE CONF
of the phoneme.
So the the authors call this with phones.
NOTE CONF
This is named after an author called Winkle gren who
invented that representation, but doesn't matter.
NOTE CONF
So sing things would become this, right?
Or came would become that.
NOTE CONF
And then in terms of triples or phonemes, this would
be hash s I s I I n I mean
NOTE CONF
hash and hash is the word boundary beginning or end
of the word okay.
NOTE CONF
So we know here that there's two phones, two phonemes
involved, and they are at the beginning of the word
NOTE CONF
here.
These three phones phonemes are also involved.
NOTE CONF
And then in the middle of the word and so
on.
NOTE CONF
So we we take our word represented as phonemes and
then we take all possible triples.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So that's a very simple representation.
NOTE CONF
Now we need to figure out how to encode those
triples.
NOTE CONF
And then we're basically in a position where we can
um where we can train the network.
NOTE CONF
So for example, using this representation we can represent that
sing becomes sang.
NOTE CONF
So I n end of word becomes an end of
word independent of word length.
NOTE CONF
Remember we're mapping the input onto the output right.
So if we have this representation then we don't care
NOTE CONF
what's preceding this.
We can still learn this mapping from in to an
NOTE CONF
okay.
So that's what we want the model to to to
NOTE CONF
learn.
So we need to enable it to represent that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So now we have these 35 phonemes and they're in
NOTE CONF
triples.
So we have 35 to the power of three possibilities.
NOTE CONF
right?
So if we take all, all possible triples like this
NOTE CONF
over our 35 phonemes, and this is about 40,000 possibilities,
which is fairly long for an input.
NOTE CONF
Right now we have an input.
In our simple examples we only had 2 or 3
NOTE CONF
input units.
Now we need 40,000.
NOTE CONF
And for today's technology that's not really a problem.
We can we can have very long inputs.
NOTE CONF
But back in the 80s they weren't really able to
train this.
NOTE CONF
So they opted for a simpler representation where they took
phonological features.
NOTE CONF
So for example k, the phoneme k can be represented
as interrupted because it's a plosive.
NOTE CONF
It's at the articulated at the back of the mouth.
It's a stop like stops and it's unvoiced.
NOTE CONF
Good would be the voiced version, right?
So linguists.
NOTE CONF
Phonology.
They thought of ways of representing phonemes in terms of
NOTE CONF
these features.
So uh, and using features like that for, for uh
NOTE CONF
consonants this would be the feature representation for k.
This would be the feature representation for a.
NOTE CONF
This would be the feature representation for.
Mhm.
NOTE CONF
Uh we can get a simpler and smaller set of
features.
NOTE CONF
So this gives us 11 binary features.
So which we can represent as zero and one.
NOTE CONF
Uh so and these are now called whittle features rather
than whittle phones.
NOTE CONF
And now we have 11 to the third uh possible
combinations.
NOTE CONF
There's some redundancy and there are some combinations that can't
occur.
NOTE CONF
So we take those away and we're left with 460.
So now we only need 460 input units.
NOTE CONF
Um which makes the network a lot more compact and
easier to train.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so at this point, yeah.
So 460 input units.
NOTE CONF
And these are the same as the output units.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Because the input and the output are both verbs represented
as phonological features.
NOTE CONF
So for a given word we activate all the features
in the phonemes together.
NOTE CONF
So thing would activate those features here.
Beginning of word c s I, n in end of
NOTE CONF
word, and the other phonemes are not being represented, and
the order of the phonemes is not being represented.
NOTE CONF
We still get a reasonably large network, right?
We have 460 input units, 460 output units.
NOTE CONF
So this gives about 200,000 connections weights that we will
need to learn.
NOTE CONF
And we are not assuming a hidden layer.
We start the training by setting them all to zero,
NOTE CONF
and the authors have a set of 200 sorry, 420
input output pairs.
NOTE CONF
Right?
Pairs like sing, sang, walk walked where the model knows
NOTE CONF
the correct answer.
Remember backpropagation is is a supervised learning algorithm.
NOTE CONF
So during training we need to know the correct answer.
And if the model doesn't generate the correct answer, then
NOTE CONF
this gives us an error signal which we propagate into
the network to adjust the weights.
NOTE CONF
That's how the training works.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So let's try to get our heads around the features.
And this should work.
NOTE CONF
Even though you cannot see it on the screen it
should work on your phones.
NOTE CONF
So if you could try this for a second.
And then you should see the first question.
NOTE CONF
Yes, sir.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Sir.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And.
Hope people can see the question.
NOTE CONF
I cannot display it because the.
This device doesn't have a network and that device doesn't
NOTE CONF
connect to the projectors.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the question is we're taking a verb spring, and
we have the phonological representation for that.
NOTE CONF
And then you're supposed to break this down into, uh,
into the wiggle phones.
NOTE CONF
So there's one correct answer here.
One two 3 or 4.
NOTE CONF
It's.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I'll give you another 30s.
Let's see what people think.
NOTE CONF
Can you actually see the results now on your screens?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
No, no.
Okay, I'll read it out.
NOTE CONF
18% have opted for number one.
56% for number two.
NOTE CONF
25% for number three and 0% for number four.
And the correct answer is number two.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So let's quickly look at this.
NOTE CONF
So number one.
Uh what's wrong here for number one.
NOTE CONF
Any anything wrong here with the first solution.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
So number one these are obviously this is a representation
you could choose, but it's not the one that the
NOTE CONF
authors have chosen here.
It's using sequences of four phonemes rather than three.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So it's a four grammar rather than a trigram representation.
NOTE CONF
Then two was the correct one, where we are chopping
it up so that we have each phoneme represented and
NOTE CONF
the context of that phoneme, right?
The previous one, and that includes the beginning and the
NOTE CONF
end of the word and the following one.
And what's wrong with three?
NOTE CONF
Why is that not correct?
We've forgotten the beginning and end of the word.
NOTE CONF
Why is that even important?
Why do we want to represent the end of the
NOTE CONF
word in the beginning of the word?
Well, because certain things happen at syllable boundaries and at
NOTE CONF
word boundaries.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Certain linguistic processes.
And for example, the thing in spring in English, that
NOTE CONF
really can only happen at the end of the word.
It's not something that's can be in the middle of
NOTE CONF
the word.
So we want the model to be able to you
NOTE CONF
know, it's only sees numbers, right?
So we want the model to know that this is
NOTE CONF
an end of the word.
And then for finally it's just a representation of the
NOTE CONF
individual phonemes.
It doesn't use triples or phonemes.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So moving on to the next question.
NOTE CONF
And this is these calculations.
And as I said, contemporary neural networks are able to
NOTE CONF
really represent large inputs, often millions of words or hundreds
of thousands of words.
NOTE CONF
But still even then, we need to think about what
the input should be like.
NOTE CONF
And we don't want it to be too big because
it makes computation difficult.
NOTE CONF
So if we use triples of phones or phonemes, how
many input units do we do we need?
NOTE CONF
If we use the 11 features and again triples?
How many inputs do we need if we use just
NOTE CONF
individual phonemes.
So we're just using a representation that shows whether something
NOTE CONF
is a phoneme is present in the world or not,
or we use a sequence of individual phonemes.
NOTE CONF
So you're supposed to find the the correct calculation in
terms of input units.
NOTE CONF
For each of these representations.
So in this case you need to think how many
NOTE CONF
possible phonemes.
How many possible features.
NOTE CONF
How do we compute the number or the number of
combinations.
NOTE CONF
And so on.
And so.
NOTE CONF
Forth.
And.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Let's have a look at what people think.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so the most popular pairing was 11 feature combinations.
Triples of phonemes requires 11 to the third binary input
NOTE CONF
units and then the next popular ones.
Individual phonemes requires 35 binary input units.
NOTE CONF
A sequence of three individual phonemes is 35 times three.
That's also correct.
NOTE CONF
Okay, great.
Let's go through each of them.
NOTE CONF
One by one.
So tripled cell phones, right?
NOTE CONF
We have 35 phones.
And of course, in each of the positions in our
NOTE CONF
triple, we can have 35 combinations.
So it would be 35 times 35 times 35.
NOTE CONF
So that's uh, 42,875.
So that's a lot of different input units.
NOTE CONF
And it's it was too big for McClelland, for Hamilton
and McClelland.
NOTE CONF
If we instead use the feature combinations right now, a
phone is not a binary unit, but it's a combination
NOTE CONF
of features.
And we have 11 different different features.
NOTE CONF
So it would be 11 to the third.
That's 1331.
NOTE CONF
If we just look at individual phones then we just
have 35 units, right.
NOTE CONF
We don't represent triples.
We just say, I don't know, Kat.
NOTE CONF
The phones are K, A and T and we we
represent those.
NOTE CONF
We have 35 units and we switch on the ones
that are present in a word.
NOTE CONF
So that's really short, but it's arguably too simple as
a representation.
NOTE CONF
Then if we have three individual phones.
So by that I mean we take 35 units representing
NOTE CONF
the first phone, 35 units a second, 35 to the
third.
NOTE CONF
So that would be 35 times 3 to 105 units.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
That is not a bad representation, but it has one
crucial limitation.
NOTE CONF
What's the limitation of a representation like this where we
just have three different phones in each represented as its
NOTE CONF
features or as as the phones themselves?
It seems pretty, pretty neat as a representation.
NOTE CONF
But what's what's the what's the limitation?
Why don't we do that?
NOTE CONF
Well, because we can only represent three three letter words,
right?
NOTE CONF
We can't represent any words that are longer or shorter
than that.
NOTE CONF
And in particular in in the case of the past
tense, often the length actually changes, right?
NOTE CONF
Because you add a past tense suffix.
So that's not a good representation for us.
NOTE CONF
What people do if they want a representation like this,
they make it much longer.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So let's assume instead of three letters you assume 20
NOTE CONF
letters.
And that's probably long enough for most verbs in English.
NOTE CONF
And then you still have the problem.
What about words that are shorter.
NOTE CONF
So you need to pad.
Um, how can you represent the.
NOTE CONF
The same suffix can appear in different places.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So you have the suffix ed in English, but of
course in a three letter word and in a five
NOTE CONF
letter word it appears at a different position.
So you need to somehow represent that as well.
NOTE CONF
So these fixed length representations, they are popular representations.
But for this particular task they're probably not very suitable.
NOTE CONF
Okay, I will skip the next one in the interest
of time and move back to the lecture.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's talk about the training and the structure of
the model a little bit.
NOTE CONF
So as we've said, this is a very simple model
that only has an input layer and an output layer.
NOTE CONF
There's nothing in between.
So there's no hidden no hidden units which would normally
NOTE CONF
be here.
It works anyway because the task is fairly simple.
NOTE CONF
And then we have each of these units representing a
triple of different feature combinations.
NOTE CONF
So for example this feature combination or that feature combination
which I've just here written for example as back vowel
NOTE CONF
and an n and then the end of the word
and so on, or two consonants at the beginning of
NOTE CONF
the word and so on.
So there's 460 of these and the same in the
NOTE CONF
output 460 of those.
And uh, how do we train this?
NOTE CONF
So we use the perceptron learning algorithm.
We don't need to use backpropagation because there's no hidden
NOTE CONF
layer.
Uh, but we assume we have correct input output pairs.
NOTE CONF
So pairs like walk walked or sink sunk.
And then we initialise the weights and the threshold.
NOTE CONF
They just said everything to the zero to start with.
And then we go through a loop where we look
NOTE CONF
at each training example, calculate the output for the training
example compared to the correct answer.
NOTE CONF
So we input walk for example, but of course represented
as a set of triples of features.
NOTE CONF
And then we generate the output again represented as a
as triples of features.
NOTE CONF
And compared to our target is it worked or not.
And we update our weights and the threshold, which we've
NOTE CONF
just encoded as a bias term in order to make
the answer similar.
NOTE CONF
The output similar to the target.
Remember we take the output.
NOTE CONF
We take the target, which in this case is just
a long list of ones and zeros.
NOTE CONF
And we want to make them more similar.
So we compute the error and we adjust our weights
NOTE CONF
based on the error.
So exactly using the perceptron learning rule that we saw
NOTE CONF
in the last two lectures.
And then we keep doing this right.
NOTE CONF
We iterate through all the training examples.
And then we iterate through the whole training set multiple
NOTE CONF
times until the error becomes small enough.
And here it's up to you to define what means
NOTE CONF
what you mean by small enough.
The error will in most cases not go down to
NOTE CONF
zero, but it will become very small and then it
will not reduce anymore, or it will just fluctuate a
NOTE CONF
little bit.
And people often draw an error curve, start with a
NOTE CONF
large error and then sort of goes down and eventually
it stabilises.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
You also call this convergence.
NOTE CONF
The network has converged and then you stop training.
So you need a criterion here, right?
NOTE CONF
You need to sort of say the error is small
enough and then I stop.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So how do they do this.
NOTE CONF
In in in practice.
So they need a lot of training iterations.
NOTE CONF
84,000.
So they go through this loop basically 84,000 times.
NOTE CONF
Um, and this worked for the 420 verbs in the
training set.
NOTE CONF
So they're able to to learn all these verbs.
This in itself is not super surprising, right?
NOTE CONF
A model is supposed to learn the training set and
supposed to get the error down to zero or close
NOTE CONF
to zero.
The interesting thing is, when you try it on new
NOTE CONF
data, when you see whether it generalises to unseen data.
So they tested the model on 86 unseen verbs or
NOTE CONF
regular and irregular irregular verbs that they hadn't trained on,
and two thirds of them were assigned the correct past
NOTE CONF
tense.
So, you know, an error rate of 25% and the
NOTE CONF
irregular ones typically were over generalised.
So.
NOTE CONF
Dig, dig.
Catch.
NOTE CONF
Catched.
And so it was able to learn verbs.
NOTE CONF
And it was able to generalise to some extent to
new verbs.
NOTE CONF
But it still made errors.
Once the training was done.
NOTE CONF
And that is interesting.
But the most interesting thing is, do we actually see
NOTE CONF
the same behaviour that we see in children?
So the authors claim that they see U-shaped learning.
NOTE CONF
So initially, for example, the model correctly generated give gave
but then it shifted to give and then shifted back
NOTE CONF
to gave.
Uh there are certain error patterns.
NOTE CONF
So for example if a verb ended in t or
It was reluctant to apply the rule, and it made
NOTE CONF
overgeneralisation errors that we see in children.
Clang clang set where verbs that are regular, the model
NOTE CONF
things are irregular.
And sorry, this was the wrong.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So how did they achieve this?
NOTE CONF
So they they.
The authors Rumelhart and McClelland, uh, they looked at what
NOTE CONF
children do, and they assume that children learn common verbs
first, like walk and talk and so on, and then
NOTE CONF
infrequent ones, I don't know, rationalise or something like that
later.
NOTE CONF
And so they built this into their model.
So they trained first using ten verbs, and eight of
NOTE CONF
them were irregular.
And the irregular ones they observe are learned earlier than
NOTE CONF
the irregular ones.
So they trained it with the remaining 410 verbs, which
NOTE CONF
were mostly regular.
And they also observe that children.
NOTE CONF
If you remember this, there is this growth spurt where
children suddenly learn a lot of verbs and ones or
NOTE CONF
words in general, not just verbs.
And so they they see something like that in that
NOTE CONF
the error rates increased dramatically at the start of this
phase, where they learn lots of verbs and then they
NOTE CONF
recover again.
And the model made errors just such as break, break.
NOTE CONF
So this is the learning curve that they found where
on the x axis you have the number of trials
NOTE CONF
during learning, and then you have the irregular and irregular
verbs here.
NOTE CONF
And you see that they they both converge to a
high level of correctness.
NOTE CONF
But there's this, uh, this blip where accuracy goes down
and then it goes up again.
NOTE CONF
And the authors argue that this is our U-shaped curve.
So it doesn't really look like the you that we've.
NOTE CONF
We've seen.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And it's also only there for the irregular ones which
is also strange.
NOTE CONF
And in general it seems like a pretty small effect.
So.
NOTE CONF
When other authors saw this, they were quite sceptical.
And there has been a lot of subsequent work looking
NOTE CONF
at this and trying to replicate this, this U shaped
learning.
NOTE CONF
So and also conceptually, you can think and say, okay,
so in that training regime, they switched from mostly irregular
NOTE CONF
verbs in the beginning to mostly irregular verbs later on.
And when children hear language, is it actually of that
NOTE CONF
pattern.
Probably not.
NOTE CONF
Right.
It's not like parents suddenly decide to use lots of
NOTE CONF
regular verbs after initially having used only irregular verbs.
That would be very strange.
NOTE CONF
And so this is actually something we don't have any
evidence for.
NOTE CONF
Then they claim that they model this growth spurt in
the vocabulary.
NOTE CONF
It turns out that that's also not correct because this
growth spurt happens early on in in the second year
NOTE CONF
of life, whereas the overgeneralisation errors that actually happen between
2 and 3, they happen later in life.
NOTE CONF
Initially, kids don't know a lot of verbs.
They actually start with nouns in the first year of
NOTE CONF
life.
So that claim is also not quite right.
NOTE CONF
And then what's with the training scheme?
So they had this complicated training scheme right.
NOTE CONF
Ten verbs which are irregular and frequent.
And then 410 verbs which are mostly regular and less
NOTE CONF
frequent.
And they get the U-shaped curve.
NOTE CONF
But actually if you change the training regime, it's quite
brittle and the effect is not necessarily replicated.
NOTE CONF
So this is not a very stable finding.
Unfortunately.
NOTE CONF
me.
Um, there's other problems.
NOTE CONF
So it only produces past tense forms.
It cannot understand past tense forms.
NOTE CONF
You cannot sort of use the model in reverse for
rule based account.
NOTE CONF
That's not a problem, right?
The rules in the lexicon are the same for doesn't
NOTE CONF
matter what you do with them.
You can generate, you can understand, you can read and
NOTE CONF
write and so on.
And here this is just a model of listening, right.
NOTE CONF
Because it uses phonological representations sorry speech production rather than
listening.
NOTE CONF
Um, then it has a very detailed model of the
pronunciation, right?
NOTE CONF
In terms of these features, um, obviously we would actually
like this to be general.
NOTE CONF
And these feature representations should appear in other parts of
the language system as well.
NOTE CONF
So every network needs to needs to model this separately.
That doesn't make sense either.
NOTE CONF
And then these wicked vehicle features are also simplified.
For example, they don't really represent the order, right?
NOTE CONF
They only have the context, the previous and the next
phoneme, but they don't represent the order of the of
NOTE CONF
of the features.
They miss other aspects of phonology as well.
NOTE CONF
So it's in many, in many ways too simple what
they're doing.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And I have a few questions.
NOTE CONF
Questions for you.
So what would you say is the other main criticisms
NOTE CONF
of the Rumelhart and McClelland model?
We've discussed some some aspects, but for example, that it
NOTE CONF
doesn't learn irregular verbs, that training takes too much time,
that the U-shaped learning is actually not convincing.
NOTE CONF
Maybe it's just an artefact of the training regime that
they've devised.
NOTE CONF
Uh, it's not robust against changes in the training regime.
Doesn't capture that.
NOTE CONF
The children learn common verbs first, or the representation is
oversimplified.
NOTE CONF
So what do you think are valid criticisms of the
model?
NOTE CONF
Let's see.
How?
NOTE CONF
So.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look at each of these.
Number one it doesn't learn irregular verbs correctly.
NOTE CONF
So 29% thought that this is, uh, a valid criticism.
Um, yes.
NOTE CONF
I think it's a valid criticism.
Um.
NOTE CONF
In particular, for unseen irregulars.
You wouldn't expect perfect, uh, performance.
NOTE CONF
Right?
Humans, if they see a new verb and they don't
NOTE CONF
know it's irregular, they might get it wrong.
But in particular, at training time, you would expect it
NOTE CONF
to pick up all the irregulars correctly.
The next one, 21% training takes too much time.
NOTE CONF
Um, no, that's not a valid criticism because we actually
don't look at the training time, right?
NOTE CONF
We just look at the overall shape of the learning
curve.
NOTE CONF
In a model, the training time will depend on, you
know, how good your implementation is, how fast your hardware
NOTE CONF
is.
And these things are not interesting from a cognitive point
NOTE CONF
of view.
Then the third one, a modelling of the U-shaped learning,
NOTE CONF
is an artefact of the unusual training regime.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
So people were actually not able to replicate this.
And we'll see another model in a moment that has
NOTE CONF
the same problem.
You don't get the U-shaped training training curve, and it's
NOTE CONF
an artefact of the training regime.
So the model is not robust.
NOTE CONF
If you change the training regime.
Then the next one is, um, doesn't capture the fact
NOTE CONF
that children learn common verbs first.
Um, that is probably true.
NOTE CONF
But, they have just basically engineered the training regime.
So the model doesn't really say anything about that because
NOTE CONF
they assume that the learning happens with the common verbs
first, and the representation with the weaker features is oversimplified.
NOTE CONF
We've already said this.
For example, it cannot represent the order of the different
NOTE CONF
triples.
It can only represent whether the triple is there or
NOTE CONF
not.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the next one and I think we're sort of
out of time.
NOTE CONF
So I'll skip the the next one.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
So that we can quickly talk about the next model.
So this is an extreme version of a model in
NOTE CONF
the sense that there's no rules.
Everything is memorised.
NOTE CONF
It's it's just learning from data, generalising from data.
But it makes testable predictions.
NOTE CONF
Um, then people have done experiments and try to validate
those predictions.
NOTE CONF
And they have also proposed other models that, um, for
example, use different input representations.
NOTE CONF
Uh, they have a hidden layer.
They have a rule like mechanism, for example, to model
NOTE CONF
the regular verbs and so on.
And we'll briefly look at one such model, the Kirov
NOTE CONF
and Cotterell model, um, which uses a different neural network
architecture called the recurrent network, which has the advantage that
NOTE CONF
it can represent an input of an arbitrary length, which,
as we said, is a useful thing for any language
NOTE CONF
data, really, because we don't know how many phones our
word is going to have.
NOTE CONF
We don't know how many, uh, how many words in
a sentence and so on.
NOTE CONF
So we want to have a flexible representation like this.
Um, it doesn't use wiggle features.
NOTE CONF
It just represents the, uh, the phonemes directly.
Um, it uses what's called an encoder decoder architecture.
NOTE CONF
And this is basically one network that encodes the input
and another network that decodes the output.
NOTE CONF
And this is quite a common architecture in language processing.
It uses an attention mechanism, which is basically a way
NOTE CONF
of saying which parts of the input and the output
are important.
NOTE CONF
And then it also addresses this criticism that the model
can only do one thing, and you would have to
NOTE CONF
train another model, for example, to recognise past tense verbs.
So it uses something called multi-task learning, which allows it
NOTE CONF
to learn multiple tasks at the same time.
So past tense is only one of them.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this is the encoder decoder architecture where we
have a recurrent network here.
NOTE CONF
And note these connections here between the units in the
same in the same layer.
NOTE CONF
These are called recurrent connections.
And then the output vector is the input for the
NOTE CONF
decoder.
So we have two.
NOTE CONF
This is actually an example from translation English to Korean.
So we have an encoder that encodes the English and
NOTE CONF
a decoder that decodes the Korean.
This is actually commonly used in machine translation models as
NOTE CONF
well.
And this is what they find.
NOTE CONF
So they compare to a rule based model, the minimal
generalisation learner which is a state of the art rule
NOTE CONF
based model.
And then they have a single task learner and a
NOTE CONF
multi-task learner.
And this is the accuracy on the training set.
NOTE CONF
So they get very high accuracies on the training set
which perhaps is is not surprising.
NOTE CONF
Right.
On the training set and both for the sorry for
NOTE CONF
the regular verbs and the irregular verbs, and on the
development set and on the test set.
NOTE CONF
So development set is a type of test set that
gets slightly lower accuracies, but still in the high 90s.
NOTE CONF
And.
the the rule based model here.
NOTE CONF
They achieve similar performance.
But what about the irregular ones?
NOTE CONF
So on the training set no problem.
But on the development set and test set, uh, we
NOTE CONF
have significantly worse performance.
So, um, and this is maybe it's a plausible behaviour,
NOTE CONF
right?
Because then if you give a human learner an irregular
NOTE CONF
verb that I haven't seen before, initially they would probably,
uh, not correct correctly find the past tense form.
NOTE CONF
And this is their learning curve.
So you have, uh, the regulars here, uh, the irregulars
NOTE CONF
in the multitask or the single task setting.
And as you can see, the performance eventually goes up
NOTE CONF
to nearly 100.
Here on the on the training set.
NOTE CONF
But it takes much longer to get there for the
irregular ones.
NOTE CONF
Right.
On the x axis you have the number of training
NOTE CONF
iterations again.
And crucially.
NOTE CONF
What again do we not see?
There is no U-shape right of any kind.
NOTE CONF
There's a bit of a zigzag here for the irregulars.
For the regulars, definitely.
NOTE CONF
They go straight to 100.
But the irregulars are.
NOTE CONF
A bit more difficult to learn.
Take a bit longer, but we don't see a U-shaped
NOTE CONF
curve.
So at some level.
NOTE CONF
And this is just one of the the models that
people have published.
NOTE CONF
Right.
But at some level, the neural network exercise was a
NOTE CONF
success in terms of learning the verbs and generalising or
over generalising for the irregulars as well.
NOTE CONF
But it was a failure in the terms in terms
of modelling particular aspects of human behaviour.
NOTE CONF
For example, U-shaped learning, where the error initially is low,
then high, then low again.
NOTE CONF
That is not something that we see in in neural
networks.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
With that in mind.
NOTE CONF
Oh yeah.
Some some examples.
NOTE CONF
So it makes interesting overgeneralisation.
And it oscillates.
NOTE CONF
So for example between uh clang clang and clink clink.
Uh, so these are the phonetic representations here.
NOTE CONF
Uh, but ultimately, uh, we don't see the U-shaped curve
and the U-shaped curve that we see in the, uh,
NOTE CONF
in the McClelland and Rumelhart model is probably an artefact
of their training, of their training regime.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, we will look at other aspects of, uh, language
NOTE CONF
tomorrow.
We'll look at speech segmentation and we'll look at some
NOTE CONF
modelling paradigms there.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF